---
title: Paketo Buildpacks 2023 - Onward and Upward
date: "2023-01-26"
slug: 2023-roadmap
author: rmoran
---

This last year was a big one for the project. We grew significantly, matured
our buildpack and stack offerings, and found new ways to engage with our users.
For 2023, we hope for all of that and more.

We want to thank everyone who contributed to the project in 2022. Whether that
was direct contibution to our codebases or feedback in the form of issues,
discussions, or Slack messages, you've been a big part of the success we've had
this year.

If you are looking to get involved with the project in 2023, we'd be happy to
help through any of our communication channels. Find us on
[Github](https://github.com/paketo-buildpacks),
[Slack](https://slack.paketo.io), [Twitter](https://twitter.com/Paketo_io), the
project [Mailing List](https://lists.paketo.io/g/main/join), or at our weekly
[Working Group
meetings](https://github.com/paketo-buildpacks/community#working-group-meetings).

The roadmap for this year has a lot of great ideas in it. Thank you to everyone
that contributed their thoughts and helped us to outline the direction of the
project. Let's take a look at what's coming up.

## ARM64
This was easily the most requested item on the roadmap and for good reason. It
feels like ARM64 is gaining big marketshare as it jumps from phones into
workstations and server infrastructure. With the efforts to rebuild our stack
and dependency management infrastructure in the rearview, figuring out how we
can better support ARM64 builds seems like an obvious next step.

Check out the ongoing [discussion
topic](https://github.com/paketo-buildpacks/feedback/discussions/23) for ARM64
to help us build out a plan.

## Security and Transparency
In the last few years we've seen users grow to expect more with regards to the
security profile of the tools they use. Developers increasingly are being
called upon to know what code they are running in their build systems and to
verify their authenticity. To that end, we're going to spend some time this
year focusing on delivering SBOMs, provenance data, and signatures for our
release artifacts.

To get involved, join the [discussion
topic](https://github.com/orgs/paketo-buildpacks/discussions/69) for this item.

## Stacks and Builders
There were a number of items in the roadmap discussion related to stacks and
builders. From introducing [new versions of our existing Ubuntu
stack](https://github.com/orgs/paketo-buildpacks/discussions/58#discussioncomment-4364166)
to wholy [new
efforts](https://github.com/orgs/paketo-buildpacks/discussions/68) to bring Red
Hat UBI stacks to the project, its clear that 2023 will be another big year for
stack development.

In the process, we'll need to figure out some technical and scaling concerns so
that we can easily support this growth in stacks. Specifically, we need to find
ways to scale our builder development, both internally by finding [a
solution](https://github.com/paketo-buildpacks/rfcs/pull/274) to the layer
limits we are seeing in the Full builder, and externally by making buildpack
stack compatibility more flexible through adoption of [upstream CNB
specifications](https://github.com/buildpacks/rfcs/blob/main/text/0096-remove-stacks-mixins.md).

## Dependencies
In 2022, we paid down a huge amount of [technical
debt](https://github.com/paketo-buildpacks/rfcs/blob/main/text/dependencies/rfcs/0003-dependency-management-overview.md)
in our dependency management system. With that effort reaching its conclusion,
its time to start considering what the next steps should be to improve the
story for dependency installation process. Specifically, we've seen renewed
interest in figuring out how to [decouple
buildpacks](https://github.com/orgs/paketo-buildpacks/discussions/58#discussioncomment-4344953)
from the dependencies they install. Doing this will allow the project to more
clearly articulate what the changes are in any given release.

## Let's get started!
Hopefully its clear that we have a lot of exciting and interesting work on the
horizon for 2023. We're gonna be working hard to make as much of this happen as
possible and we'd love to see contributions from you!

If you want to get involved, please check out the [2023 Roadmap project
board](https://github.com/orgs/paketo-buildpacks/projects/29) and join us on
[Slack](https://slack.paketo.io) or at our weekly [Working Group
meetings](https://github.com/paketo-buildpacks/community#working-group-meetings).

Here's to 2023! ðŸŽ‰
